@node Mars
@nodedescription Documentation for timekeeping on Mars

@menu
* Definitions:: Useful definitions.
* Darian Calendar:: An introduction to the Darian Calendar system.
* Types:: Types for working with Martian time.
@end menu

@node Definitions
@nodedescription Useful definitions.

There is some special language used around timekeeping on Mars.

@bullet{} Sol: A day on Mars - that is, the amount of time it takes for Mars
to complete its rotation.

@bullet{} MSD: Mars Sol Date - the amount of sols since approximately
12:00 UTC, December 29th 1873 on Earth.

@node Darian Calendar
@nodedescription An introduction to the Darian Calendar system.

@c TODO hyperlinks, fill out section.
The Darian Calendar is a proposed calendar system for Mars by Thomas
Gangale.

There is a website that lists all the information, including a date
conversion tool.

As a brief overview, the year has 24 months. Each year contains four
seasons. Each month is 28 sols, except for the last month of the
season, which contains 27 sols. The only exception is the last month
of the year, Vrishika, when the year is a leap year.

Leap years occur when the year is an odd number, or divisible by 10
unless the year is also divisible by 100. So, for example, the years
191, 193, and 195 are leap years. 190 is also a leap year as it is
divisible by 10. The year 200, however, is not a leap year, as it is
divisible by 100.

The month names are as follows:

@enumerate
@item
Sagittarius
@item
Dhanus
@item
Capricornus
@item
Makara
@item
Aquarius
@item
Kumbha
@item
Pisces
@item
Mina
@item
Aries
@item
Mesha
@item
Taurus
@item
Rishabha
@item
Gemini
@item
Mithuna
@item
Cancer
@item
Karka
@item
Leo
@item
Simha
@item
Virgo
@item
Kanya
@item
Libra
@item
Tula
@item
Scorpius
@item
Vrishika
@end enumerate

And the sol names of the week are as follows:
@enumerate
@item
Solis
@item
Lunae
@item
Martis
@item
Mercurii
@item
Jovis
@item
Veneris
@item
Saturni
@end enumerate

@node Types
@nodedescription Types for working with Mars time.

@c AI disclosure: searched up which commands to use
@c TODO: How to best show this
@bullet {} mars_time_t type: represents the number of Martian seconds
since approximately 12:00 UTC, December 29th 1873, or Virgo 25th 140.
When using, be aware that mars_time_t should not be confused with
time_t. Early values of mars_time_t will represent negative time_t
values as it predates the Unix Epoch.

@deftypevr {Struct} struct mars_tm
The **mars_tm** structure is similar to the **tm** structure, which
represents "broken-down" time.
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_sec
Martian seconds, 0-59
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_min
Minutes, 0-59
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_hour
Hours, 0-23
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_msol
Sol of month, 1-28
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_mon
Month, 0-23
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_year
Year, starting from Darian Calendar Year 0
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_wsol
Sol of week, 0-6
@end deftypevar
@deftypevar {int} mars_tm_ysol
Sol of year, 0-668
@end deftypevar

@end deftypevr

@node Numerical time
@nodedescription TODO

@node String functions
@nodedescription Functions for working with string representation. TODO

@bye
